---
layout: post
title: "73 435"
date: 2012-11-23 01:18
comments: true
categories: ham
---

So, I finally got a radio and got on the air! I picked up a [Baofeng UV-5R+][uv5r] from Amazon and got on the air!

{% flickr_image 8209857433 z %}

Last night after some struggle, I got the radio cloned using both Baofeng's software (which is pretty hilariously bad, I must say) and [CHIRP][chirp] to make a baseline backup of the device, per Raccoon's recommendation (freenode/efnet) and got down to programming.

I feel like using CHIRP to program my radio is a bit "cheating" in a way, because I literally opened CHIRP, gave it my location, and it looked up my local repeaters online and programmed them into the radio for me.

I tuned into the closest repeater I could find, tossed out my call sign and waited.
Nothing.
I tried another.
Nothing.
I started getting discouraged, but then I remembered that my radio has a "scan" mode, so I fired that up.
I ended up landing on 147.435, which is apparently an [infamous][435org] [repeater][435repeaterorg] in the SoCal area.
There was a long and seemingly heated conversation going on, so I didn't break in, but I did listen for a while before heading to bed.

Well, tonight, after stuffing my face full of deep fried turkey, mashed potatoes, stuffing, quality adult beverages and fun, I got home and fired up the radio again.
It was still tuned to 435, and there was some activity, so I stayed with it and kept listening.
I found out there's an [IRC Channel][dickcandles] and hopped on there to see what was happening.
After a while I braved the airwaves and started talking.
Then, something amazing happened.
I got a response!
Sadly, it was that I was very quiet, which I think is due in large part to the fact that I'm using the stock antenna which came with the radio, which I read in a lot of the reviews is not very good.
Fortunately, the people seemed to be receptive and friendly to this new voice on the air, and I got some recommendations for improving and testing my setup, including hopping on the repeater's teamspeak server for duplex so I can check how the repeater is hearing me.

One thing that is drawing me to the repeater is that they seem to have [less concern about "obscene language"][435standards], and that's appealing to me.
Not because I have to have profanity in my life to survive, but because it means there are less "tabboo" topics, and I won't have to watch my mouth quite so much!

Anywho, I'm just happy to finally be on the air, and I look forward to many more rag chews and contacts and Elmer sessions.
"73" 435.

Special thanks to [N6BHU][n6bhu] and KC6USO (though this appears to be an outdated call?) for being patient with me and helping me out, both in the irc channel and on the air.


[435org]: http://435.org/ "435's Animal House"
[435repeaterorg]: 
[uv5r]: http://www.eham.net/reviews/detail/10349 "Baofeng UV-5R review on eham.net"
[chirp]: http://chirp.danplanet.com/ "CHIRP: the Open Source radio programming tool"
[dickcandles]: http://dickcandles.com/ "435's irc/teamspeak server"
[N6BHU]: http://hamcall.net/call/N6BHU "N6BHU on hamcall.net"
[435standards]: http://www.435repeater.org/CommunityStandards.html "435repeater.org Community Standards"
